# Analyzing presidential speeches to infer the political focus of different countries

## Inspiration: 

Few months back, I had been helping my husband to finalize on the candidate he should vote for the US elections.  For that I was reading in detail about the goals and plans of every candidate in the election bulletin. Having closely followed the politics in India, I realized that the focus of both the countries was very different. More specifically, leaders in the US for examples were talking about immigration issues while in India they are more involved in addressing challenges like poverty and building infrastructure. So for my NLP project, I wanted to analyze speeches of national leaders to explore more about what kind of issues are different countries dealing with which might seem probably alien to another nation. 

On reading more about this, I realized that analyzing text data could be a very important part of analyzing pollical events. Also this could be used to monitor the international relationships among other countries. On thinking more about it, I also realized that it could also be used to draw coherence between the speeches before a leader is elected during the campaign and after being elected to see if a candidate is in alignment with the promises he made. 

## Scraping:

I selected the leaders of the top five economies of the world for my project. I scraped the about 100-150 speeches on average for every leader separately. For a few websites, I scraped the speeches in chunks so that I don’t lose information in the process. 

## Data Analysis and Findings:

Data preprocessing mostly involved removing punctuations, special characters, stop words and foreign language words from the speech. This involved some back and forth while modelling with removing extra stop words and trying different n grams for the same. 

## Finding:

The topics generated by the models were distinct from each other and were seems to be quite aligned with the interest of respected countries. I also validated this by reading about news articles published during the same time to see if those topics made sense. I expected the LDA to work better as speeches are large documents. However, I felt that NMF gave better results. I wish to take a deeper look at why this was the case given time. Following this, I tried to use data visualization tools like t-SNA, CorEx and k means clustering. However, I think I should dive in deeper to look at my code to see how I could get better more meaningful results out of data visualization. 

